---
title: An update
author: Jared
layout: post
permalink: /ramblings/an-update/
tags:
  - Ramblings
---
I&#8217;m writing to you this morning from our holiday in Daylesford. I figured I haven&#8217;t written in quite some time and should probably say something. Prepare for the typical, “I haven&#8217;t written my blog in a while” excuses.

A lot has been happening in my life recently; a promotion at work, some ad-hoc financial analysis for friends, my website crapping itself and just general blog momentum slowing down. Most of this is really good – promotion at work is great news and doing work for friends sends me a clear message that people value my experience and knowledge.

My website dying is annoying more than anything but forces me to transition my blog over here. Oringinally, I started blogging on Tumblr because I wanted to start writing straight away. Normally, when I start these projects, I spend all my time setting up the blog (platform, themes, plugins etc.) and by the time I&#8217;m finished, my motivation has withered and nothing (or very little) gets written. Since I wanted to make a serious go of this writing caper, I decided that I needed something quick and easy to get started. Hence Tumblr.

Now though, I have had time off work to set up my blog properly, the way it should have been in the first place. I&#8217;ve transitioned blog posts over from Tumblr and we are back up and running. I will continue to cross post to Tumblr to make sure I don&#8217;t lose traffic and so you can keep reading there if you prefer it. I have had some people say that the commenting system on Tumblr is prohibitive so hopefully this new blog will help get some comments flowing. We&#8217;ll see.

This whole process has worked out for the best, it seems, since my writing momentum had naturally slowed and now my enthusiasm has grown due to the work I&#8217;ve put in to (re)building the blog. There&#8217;s no guarantee that my momentum wont dry up again in two weeks time though.

The other benefit to this new site is that I have a place where I can expand my offerings to the wider world. I am no longer constrained with just a blog but can grow the site to include helpful tools I&#8217;ve found or created and potentially even offer paid services for those interested. There&#8217;s work to do there and my focus on that my slow blog posts but the promise of paid work from this site does have a certain allure.

So, if you made it this far, you must be a die hard fan! In that case, I need your help.

  1. I need more blog post ideas so keep them coming. You can ask through Tumblr still, email or comment. As long as I get your question or topic suggestion then I can work on it.
  2. What would you like to see on the main site? I have some ideas already but I&#8217;m not sure how well that would be received and/or if people would be willing to pay for it.
  3. Think about what you would be willing to pay for from a site like this and also how much you would pay. I realise at this stage you are mostly my friends so the payment thing is a bit nebulous but some feedback would be good.

Please comment with your answers or any other suggestions you may have.
