---
title: The economics of fines
author: Jared
layout: post
permalink: /ramblings/the-economics-of-fines/
tags:
  - Ramblings
---
The Victorian public transport ticket authority recently changed their rules around infringements with those found traveling on public transport without a valid ticket being presented with two options; pay a fine of $75 on the spot or pay a fine of $217 after a formal infringement notice has been issued. This got me thinking, what is the break even point for fare evasion in Melbourne?

The cost of travelling from the outer suburbs of Melbourne to the CBD daily costs just over $12 for a full fare paying passenger. Assuming you choose not to purchase a fare then you save $12 per day assuming you don&#8217;t get caught and fined. But if the fine for fare evasion is $75, you would need to be inspected one in every six days in order to make the fine more of a financial impost than purchasing a ticket in the first instance. On the other hand, before the new rule was introduced, you would need to travel at least 18 days without being inspected before it would become a worthwhile venture to fare evade. Furthermore, previously, the fines increased for each additional infringement thereby punishing repeat offenders more heavily. This no longer happens.

Now the maths is a little different if you are travelling from the inner suburbs where ticket prices are only $7 per day but the principle remains the same. After 11 days travel it becomes more cost effective to fare evade than to purchase a ticket. Otherwise it would be 31 days travel if you were to be issued an infringement notice before you broke even.

The other factor of course is how regularly a daily commuter has their ticket inspected. I can honestly say that in my time commuting via public transport on a daily basis, I would have had my ticket inspected perhaps 3 or 4 times in a year. So assuming no increase in the rate of ticket inspections, this new rule is a win for fare evaders. Instead of removing a disincentive to steal, the government has turned this on its head.

It is also reasonable to assume that the rate of inspections is unlikely to increase given the ticket inspectors are employed by the public transport provider while the fines are paid directly to the government &#8211; with a flat $30 fee rebated to the provider who employs the inspector. So, the transport company has no incentive to increase inspections since their increased activity carries additional cost which would easily offset any additional revenue generated by that activity.

Now I am in no way advocating breaking the law or not paying your way on public transport. But I do think it is a poor policy decision to take a scheme designed primarily to prevent and discourage particular behaviour and dramatically change it so that those behaviours are no longer discouraged. I can understand providing commuters an incentive to pay their fine on the spot but at such a heavy discount, the new rule almost guarantees that fare evaders will take the cheaper option and, ultimately, the government will lose out on revenue. And the final bill will be borne by tax payers generally. And they say crime doesn&#8217;t pay!
